In this video what we are going to do is we're going to take a look at the Maven release plug in.
Now what this plugin does is it allows you to generate releases of your artifacts and Maven.
Now this is a pretty pretty handy plug in.
There are some better plugins out there I should say are more popular ones and there's an argument around
this.
There's some very opinionated people how to perform releases.
So I'm gonna introduce you those with a grain of salt.
There are a lot of opinions around this.
And this is a plugin I've used in the past.
It works well it may not be perfect for your particular use case but it does work pretty well.
Now I did go in and do some testing with this.
And let me show you some changes that occurred that I did not cover before.
So I'm going into GitHub repository if I come into the commits know we saw that I did do the refactoring
multi module project I did have a problem with a failing test.
Basically when I did the refactoring this got left in the wrong package and the spring context was not
loading I thought I saw the test run when I was testing perhaps an error on my part but that has been
corrected and then here I was doing some testing of the release plugin.
We can see that I incremented the release ideas a couple times and I just want to show you some of the
artifacts that happen here.
We can see that we only have the master branch right now but in the testing of the plugin you can see
that I did create two releases so I said Gee pet clinic there is there are 1 and zeroes are 2.
These were my testing of preparing for this lesson so I do go through and actually do prepare for a
number of weeks the lesson so these are artifacts have been left inside GitHub.
Now I want to cover those at the beginning of this video.
Now the Maven release plug in what it does to primary things are to prepare for release.
I mean I come over here and click on the prepared example and very simple maven release prepare.
And this is going to go through a number of things.
And this is going to make sure that there's no uncommitted changes.
We don't have a snapshot dependencies.
We'll update ACM.
This is your get or subversion or whatever whatever using for source control management.
That's ICM source control management.
And this is compatible with no tools out there.
Get as probably the prominent one right now.
It will run tests.
It's going to commit the modified palms and then it will tag the source code.
So that's all in the preparation of that.
Now that perform release this is kind of important what this does it is going to check out from source
control management and then it's going to run that.
And what we are going to do here is it does do a deploy set up and when the capabilities of maven has
I can configure maven and do this with my Chuck Norris jokes generator I have a jar published on maven
central so I can use this plug in I think I can't remember it's been two years since I've done that
but I think I use this plug in to go ahead and generate releases up to maven Central.
So pretty common setup where you have a deploy set up for your artifacts and those artifacts are going
to get deployed out to like a nexus server or maven central or something like that depending on your
organizations.
I do cover this a lot more in my dev ops course where we get into deploying them already used nexus
there.
Preshow use nexus to deploy artifacts to that so pretty common setup some type of internal Maven Repository
where you deploy your internal artifacts too.
And this is a plugin that's going to automate everything for you.
I mean step through in this video here to show you this how we set this up.
So we come back over here to ontology and close out a couple of these tabs here
and now I am just on the route so I close this up a little bit so you can see better.
So I am actually on the palm and the root of this.
And what I want to do is I can get rid of the dependencies that's just an empty tag at this point.
We will probably have to add that at some point in the future but for now we'll get rid of that.
So we add and a plug in group I.D. that's going to be more patchy plugins
and we're going to do the Maven release plug.
Now what we don't need to do here is specify the version that will inherit from the Palm.
The Palm has a version that we are using so that gives us some version of Apache.
So it will inherit from that.
And then what we need to do here is I do need to add in a configuration step member.
Come over here remember where I said it to does the deploy.
We do not want this to deploy.
And so what we need to do is come in here and configure the plug in
and I can say goals install.
And by default the goal is going to be running for deploy.
So deploy actually runs you see over here on the lifecycle it's just a little bit away.
Maven works if you do compile compile run that.
But if you do package package will run compile and test and package deploy will actually run compile
test package verify install and then deploy and site and so deploy the deploy stuff does a lot of stuff
that we don't want.
That's why I'm overriding it to say install.
So now I've made that change.
We can see here I am on 0 0 3 snapshot and what I want to do is come here to Terminal and now I can
say maven release cone prepare so I am asking them to run if I look at this here where I can see plugins
I have the release plugin installed so we can see release call.
And so these are different goals of that release plugin.
And the first step I'm going to do is I release prepare and this is going to go through and rebuild
a project test and make sure everything's right.
That's going to do the ACM commits and tag the version inside of ACM and it's probably going to be unhappy.
I thought it would be unhappy
because I forgot to add an ACM tag
I definitely know I need to do that
and this tag here I need to come over here to get home to my project and what I can do is come here
and I use us as H I have my keys configured for good hope so I can come back over here and do a c.
Cohen get calling and then paste this like the URL.
And depending on your provider depending on what source control management system you are using this
could be different.
And in the patchy documentation that does have additional details there
Oh I see what I did.
That's why I didn't air out because I accidentally clicked on run here.
When I went to the command of the terminal window did not run earlier so that reran amazing command.
So here I want to make an early least Paracelsus actually going to run the relief stop so that was my
mistake earlier in the video.
And now you can see it's asking me for the release version.
I'm just going to hit enter and you can see it's just basically lopping off the snapshot and it's asking
me for the sub modules and there's the label and the new version is going to be 0 0 for Def snapshot.
So I'll be on a snapshot.
Release and the same for that.
So now it's going to go through and rebuild the project trust it tag it inside of us.
And again I thought I was going to get an error there earlier and I accidentally reran a maven command
and the run window rather than here
and you could see that I now have built success so that is all happy and all I can do.
Here is maven release perform.
So again if I look over here these are the steps and you're primarily going to be using prepare and
then perform prepare and perform these others and you're going to be running when something goes wrong
or if you need to do something special on it.
I'm not going to be able to get into each one of those.
So let's go ahead and run or at least perform
and you'll see us running through testing everything make sure it runs we bring up the spring context
we don't have a lot of test here yet.
So everything runs by pretty quick and we can see that that has not been committed.
But if I come over here and do a refresh on this
and we can see now that I have really.
0 0 3 has been committed.
Now what I also can do.
You so I had to re tag had to say approve all the different tags for the modules.
What we can do is add in one more configuration step here.
Auto version sub modules and I'm going to say true for that value.
Now if I come and do another release prepare so I'm going to prepare another release and now you can
see he's asked me to do I want to use the 0 0 4 for the release.
Yes and I'm going to use the label as f g Pet Clinic 0 0 4.
Yes.
Now it's going to ask me for the snapshot version so be 0 0 5 for the snapshot.
And you can see that this time last time it prompted me for the two sub modules and this time it did
not.
So you can have differing versions.
There's some people are very adamant where you do need to have different versions on your sub model.
I am actually in the other camp.
I'm not sure why if you're gonna have a multi module project why you would want to have different versions
in that.
So now I'm going to go do the release perform
and now it's going to go through and actually perform that release and committed up to get some and
these tests are running.
You can see that that has completed.
Now if I come back over to get hub and do a refresh build see tag 0 4 is there.
So we've completed 0 4 and I am just going to go ahead and commit this.
Let's go ahead and commit
say commit the directory and we can see that the palms have changed and say adding
Now these did not automatically commit.
That's something I'm going to look into.
I would expect in this release process that changes to the Palm should be committed.
But in this case it was not so that produced a small bug that I need to work out.
So I go ahead and commit this and I'm going to push that and this time I forgot to update the issue
but I'm going to go ahead and say this and may even
so I'm putting a note in there may have a problem a problem with get commits.
So I'm going to go ahead and close and comment.
And again I just put this plug in there just to show you as an example of using the Maven released plug
in as you get into more and more complicated Java projects and this is a handy plugin to have.
There's other plugins for maven that do very similar things.
And if you're on great all again there's plugins were great all as well so this was very much favored
three years ago development.
It's kind of grown a little stagnant but it's a mature plugin still widely use so I would not be surprised
if you see it in the industry again this plugin is all about creating releases of your artifacts.